Hi, and welcome to term two of AI for trading.
We're so glad that you're here because we have so much exciting stuff to share with you.
Let's take a moment and recap what you learned in term one.
In the first term of this program,
you focused on developing domain knowledge and quantitative finance.
You learned about market mechanics and financial data.
You learned about influential trading strategies,
such as those based on momentum,
meaner version, and breakouts.
You learned how to conduct original research to generate all those strategies,
and how to evaluate
whether these strategies are promising candidates
to be added into an optimized portfolio.
You also applied risk factor models to control major sources of risk,
thereby allowing your chosen alpha factors to drive the returns of the portfolio.
Finally, you used portfolio optimization to combine
alpha factors and risk factors into an optimal portfolio,
the way an orchestra conductor combines various instruments into a musical masterpiece.
This knowledge will serve you well as
a foundation for your future exploration of quantitative investing.
To apply AI in financial trading or really any type of modeling in any field,
you need domain knowledge to be successful.
This is particularly important in finance due to the nature of the data.
The signal to noise ratio is very low.
The depth, and the data, and time can be low.
There's only one actual instantiation of events.
Applying AI and machine learning models out of the box
without understanding the underlying phenomenon and data,
is likely to generate strategies that may work
very well when tested on data from the past,
but will not work well on unseen future data.
For those familiar with this terminology,
the strategies are likely to be overfit.
With better knowledge of the underlying phenomenon,
you are less likely to develop a strategy that is based on random noise,
and more likely to develop a strategy that is based
on a legitimate source of this pricing in the market